JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: a
look at what
we know about president- elect
Trump's plans
to move from campaigning to
governing.
Then: Bernie Sanders on his new
book, the
new president and how he's going
to keep his
political revolution alive.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I), Vermont: I
think what
we have to be, going to the
streets, protesting
in any and every way, makes
sense.
But we need a strategy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And "The
Atlantic" magazine's
Jeffrey Goldberg shares what
Henry Kissinger
thinks of how President Obama
has handled
foreign policy and what he
expects of president-elect
Trump.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG, National
Correspondent,
"The Atlantic": Obviously, Henry
Kissinger
is a person, even at 93, who
doesn't like
to be out of the game, doesn't
like to be
out of the limelight, and so
he's basically
saying, "I'm here for you, Don,
and I want
to give you some sound advice."
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: President-elect
Donald Trump
continued his very visible
process of meeting
with people who may play top
roles in his
administration.
The auditions weren't public,
but the comings
and goings were.
John Yang has the story.
JOHN YANG: The planning for
president-elect
Trump's White House was back at
Trump Tower
in Manhattan today after a
weekend at a Trump
golf course in New Jersey.
Some are hoping to hear, "You're
hired," like
former Massachusetts Senator
Scott Brown,
who wants to be veterans affairs
secretary.
SCOTT BROWN (R), Former U.S.
Senator: I think
he's obviously going to take my
application
or interest under consideration.
I'm glad that he called.
I think I'm the best person, but
there are
some tremendous people out
there.
And I don't look at it as a
competition.
Anybody who takes that job,
which I believe
is the toughest job in the
Cabinet because
it has really so many problems,
in that it's
so visible.
JOHN YANG: Some, like Oklahoma
Governor Mary
Fallin, were early allies.
She is mentioned as a candidate
for interior
secretary.
GOV.
MARY FALLIN (R), Oklahoma: No, I
not was not
offered a position.
It was just an initial meeting
to discuss
a wide range of topics.
JOHN YANG: Others, like former
Texas Governor
Rick Perry, were former rivals.
He once referred to Trumpism as
a toxic mix
of demagoguery and nonsense.
Now he's talked about as a
possible defense
or energy secretary.
Mr. Trump also sat down with a
prominent House
Democrat, Hawaii's Tulsi
Gabbard.
She's a Bernie Sanders supporter
who has been
critical of both President Obama
and Hillary
Clinton.
In a statement, she said they
discussed foreign
policy issues.
With visitors coming and going
at a rapid
clip, top Trump adviser
Kellyanne Conway made
clear not every meeting is a job
interview.
KELLYANNE CONWAY, Trump Campaign
Manager:
You have people flying in from
all over the
country meeting with him to give
their advice,
their counsel, share their
experience and
their vision for the country,
some of which
will result in appointments to
his administration,
and some who just wish to be
helpful.
JOHN YANG: Network TV news
executives and
anchors also met with the
president-elect
in an off-the-record session.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On a personal
note, president-elect
Trump said Sunday that he will
move into the
White House come January, but
that his wife
and young son will wait for the
school year
to finish in New York before
joining him.
In the day's other news: Several
cities are
on edge after a series of
attacks on police.
In San Antonio, Texas,
authorities hunted
a man who ambushed an officer in
his cruiser
on Sunday.
The suspect visited police
headquarters just
hours before the shooting.
The police chief says it's "the
worst nightmare"
for the members of his force.
WILLIAM MCMANUS, San Antonio
Police Chief:
Absolutely feel targeted.
I feel we were targeted.
I think that the uniform was the
target.
And anyone who happened -- the
first person
who happened along was the
person that he
targeted.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Another officer
in Saint Louis
was critically wounded in a
similar attack.
And two more officers were shot
and wounded
in Missouri and Florida.
Overall, the National Law
Enforcement Memorial
Fund reports that 60 officers
have died by
gunfire this year.
That's up 67 percent from 2015.
There's been more trouble near a
North Dakota
camp where people are protesting
the Dakota
Access oil pipeline.
Last night, police used tear gas
and water
cannon in subfreezing weather
when a crowd
tried to cross a blocked bridge.
Officials say protesters threw
rocks and burning
logs.
Protesters gathered again today.
They say the pipeline will
threaten water
supplies and desecrate land
sacred to the
Standing Rock Sioux.
The death toll has hit 146 after
Sunday's
train disaster in Northern
India.
More than 220 people were
injured.
It happened in a village
southeast of New
Delhi as most of the train's
passengers were
asleep.
Today, the rescue effort was
officially called
off, and cranes and bulldozers
cleared the
mangled wreckage from the
tracks.
Investigators are now trying to
determine
what caused the accident.
In Syria, no respite today in
the fierce new
bombing of rebel-held Eastern
Aleppo.
Dan Rivers of Independent
Television News
reports that hospitals are now
high on the
hit list.
DAN RIVERS: After a four-week
pause the bombing
of Aleppo has resumed and this
last week has
been more intense than ever.
This morning, once again, there
were repeated
attacks, fear and confusion in
the east of
This morning, once again, there
were repeated
attacks, fear and confusion in
the east of
this city, the streets cloaked
in a manmade
cloud into which rescuers ran,
unable to make
out anything.
Hospitals were apparently
frequently the target,
the dust permeating every ward
and every bed,
leaving the dwindling number of
doctors dazed
in the horror.
Tonight, not a single major
trauma facility
is left open in Eastern Aleppo.
On Friday, CCTV captured an
airstrike on a
pediatric hospital.
From multiple angles, it shows
the moment
a busy reception room was
suddenly plunged
into darkness as patients and
staff then tried
to escape.
This is a ward in Aleppo's M1
Hospital last
Tuesday full of injured
children.
And this is same ward today
after it was hit
by an airstrike.
MAN: You can see there is big
remains all
apparent, all the rooms smashed.
DAN RIVERS: In a city where it
seems there
is nothing left to bomb, the
planes are still
finding targets, a concerted
effort to deny
people the most basic medical
care when they
have lost everything else.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Turkey's
President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan urged the U.S. today to
set up a no-fly
zone over Syria.
In Afghanistan, the Islamic
State group has
claimed a suicide bombing that
rocked a Shiite
mosque in Kabul today.
At least 32 people died and
scores more were
injured.
The attacker struck as a large
crowd of worshipers
had gathered.
It's the second major attack on
the country's
minority Shiites in just over a
month.
Pope Francis is extending a
policy that lets
rank-and-file Catholic priests
offer forgiveness
for abortions.
It will continue beyond the Holy
Year of Mercy,
which ended Sunday.
A papal letter today says
abortion remains
a -- quote -- "grave sin" under
Roman Catholic
doctrine.
But he goes on to say: "There is
no sin that
God's mercy cannot reach and
wipe away."
A top Vatican official says
that's all-encompassing.
ARCHBISHOP RINO FISICHELLA,
Vatican (through
translator): Technically,
everyone who is
involved in an abortion, that is
the woman,
nurses, the doctor, whoever
supports this
matter, the sin of abortion
involves all.
Thus, the pardon of the sin of
abortion equally
covers everyone, involves
everyone who has
played a part in this sin.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Until last year,
only a bishop
could grant absolution for
abortion or allow
priests to do so.
President Obama has reaffirmed
his backing
of the Trans-Pacific trade deal
as it faces
an uncertain future.
President-elect Trump has called
it a job
killer and campaigned on a
promise to pull
out of it.
The president spoke Sunday
evening in Lima,
Peru, as an Asia-Pacific summit
ended.
He said retreating from global
trade is not
the answer, and other leaders
vowed to push
ahead.
Some 500 workers are going on
strike at Chicago's
O'Hare Airport, but not until
after Thanksgiving.
Their union announced today the
walkout will
start on November 29 to avoid
messing up travelers'
holiday plans.
The workers are looking for
union rights and
a $15-an-hour wage.
They're mainly baggage handlers,
cabin cleaners,
janitors and wheelchair
attendants.
And on Wall Street, oil prices
surged amid
talk that OPEC will cut output,
and that,
in turn, sent all of the major
stock indexes
to record highs.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 88
points to close at 18956.
The Nasdaq rose 47, and the S&P
500 added
16.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
outlining
priorities on the Trump agenda;
what's next
for Senator Bernie Sanders under
a Trump presidency;
our regular Monday duo on the
week ahead in
politics; and much more.
We take a closer look at what we
know at this
moment about the Trump
transition with two
reporters following the process,
Jennifer
Jacobs, who is with Bloomberg
Politics, and
Michael Schmidt of The New York
Times.
And we welcome both of you back
to the "NewsHour."
Jennifer, let me start with you.
It has been a parade of people
over the weekend
to the golf club in New Jersey,
today back
at Trump Tower.
Whom are we seeing?
Is every one of these people a
serious contender?
JENNIFER JACOBS, Bloomberg
Politics: Probably
not every single one, but the
Trump aides
have told me that they are
really bringing
forward as many people of
different perspectives
as possible.
They're very serious about
getting people
with a range of different
conservative views
in front of Mr. Trump so that he
has all these
options to pursue, instead of
maybe just turning
to his inner circle of people
who were with
him during the campaign, those
people who
are probably part of his comfort
zone.
They wanted to bring in some
fresh perspective.
So you have got everybody from
Michelle Rhee,
who is Asian, coming in for
possible Education,
to -- he's a variety of various
people coming
in, men, women, black, white.
And I know that that's part of
their strategy
is to really to present him a
diverse set
of people to choose from.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Schmidt,
what would
you add to that?
What are we to make of this
steady stream
of people from diverse
backgrounds and frankly
from both parties?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT, The New York
Times: Well,
I had the chance this weekend to
be at the
country club in New Jersey where
Mr. Trump
was.
And it was a pretty cold event
as we stood
outside.
And he really did turn it into a
spectacle.
He would bring folks in, greet
them, take
pictures with them in front of
an American
flag, address the press, go
inside, interview
them, come outside, see them
away, talk to
the press.
This went on all weekend.
And it did have sort of an
"Apprentice" feel
to it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, what do you
mean by that,
because "Apprentice" is a
reality television
show.
This is for real.
He's the president-elect.
Does your reporting tell you
that most of
these people are under serious
consideration?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Well, look, he
has got 4,000
positions to fill and he's got a
lot of stuff
to learn.
It does seem like there is a lot
of policy
that he doesn't understand and
he really wants
to get different people in front
of him.
At least that's what their aides
say.
But previous presidents haven't
had a such
a public spectacle for the way
that they have
interviewed people.
An SUV would drive up.
It would drop Mitt Romney off.
Mitt Romney would walk up.
There would be a photo-op.
It was just a real sort of
scene.
Obviously, unlike "The
Apprentice," we're
not in the room.
But at the same time, it was
kind of entertaining.
And Mr. Trump would answer
questions.
He answered about "SNL," about
"Hamilton,"
about whether he was concerned
about Rudy
Giuliani's finances and his
business dealings.
He said he wasn't.
So, although it was really cold,
it sort of
-- it went on and on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jennifer, we're
trying to understand
how much of this is a learning
process, as
Michael was just referring to,
and how much
of it is maybe to throw us off
either in the
public, in the media?
Because, as you say, it's
diverse, it's deliberately
diverse.
And we're trying to sort out
here what is
real and what isn't.
JENNIFER JACOBS: Some people
called it speed
dating.
And then Kellyanne Conway, one
of his strategists
today, said that he has a
voracious appetite
to get more and more people in
to see him.
He just -- it's like his craving
for his rallies.
He's got that same appetite now.
He wants more and more meetings
so that he
can hear from people.
It's also so that he can hear
ideas.
These are very smart people,
very plugged-in
people.
And now is his opportunity to
grill them,
to get various counsel and
various ideas for
his administration that he can
maybe steal
or use.
It's partly about vetting people
and it's
partly just about tapping ideas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, in fact,
Michael Schmidt,
we saw -- I guess we learned
this today -- the
Kansas secretary of state, Kris
Kobach, who
was interviewed, went to New
Jersey to the
golf club, was carrying a sheath
of papers
under his arm, and I guess the
television
-- we have got some images of it
here -- television
cameras that were there zoomed
in.
We think Mr. Kobach is being
vetted for secretary
of homeland security.
There was some language in there
about doing
away with all Syrian immigrants.
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Yes.
No, the language in there was
some pretty
conservative views on sort of
homeland security
issues and really tracking
foreigners in the
country sort of in ways that we
did in years
after September 11.
But what that sort of shows us
and what we
have seen so far from Mr. Trump
is that he's
really following what he said on
the campaign
trail.
He has not tacked to the middle.
He has stayed very sort of far
to the right,
tough on these national security
issues, relying
on someone like Mike Flynn, who
has been harshly
critical of the Muslim religion,
and even,
you know, talking to a lot of
generals, talking
to a lot of guys in uniform, and
taking Mike
Pompeo to run the CIA, you know,
somebody
who has gone along with the
really harsh tactics
that the CIA used in the past
few years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the Trump
transition folks
have just in the last few
minutes released
this video of Mr. Trump speaking
about his
priorities.
It's about two-and-a-half
minutes long and
we have got about a minute we
want to share
with all of you.
DONALD TRUMP (R),
President-Elect: On trade,
I am going to issue a
notification of intent
to withdraw from the
Trans-Pacific Partnership,
a potential disaster for our
country.
Instead, we will negotiate fair
bilateral
trade deals that bring jobs and
industry back
onto American shores.
On energy, I will cancel
job-killing restrictions
on the production of American
energy, including
shale energy and clean coal,
creating many
millions of high-paying jobs.
That's what we want.
That's what we have been waiting
for.
On regulation, I will formulate
a role which
says that, for every one new
regulation, two
old regulations must be
eliminated.
So important.
On national security, I will ask
the Department
of Defense and the chairman of
the Joint Chiefs
of Staff to develop a
comprehensive plan to
protect America's vital
infrastructure from
cyber-attacks and all other form
of attacks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Jennifer
Jacobs, you have
been covering Donald Trump for a
while.
How much of this is new?
Does this flesh out what he has
been saying
before?
JENNIFER JACOBS: No.
There were -- remember his
Gettysburg speech,
his big Gettysburg address where
he laid out
what he would do in the first
100 days?
And he had 28 points there that
he pledged
to do.
He called his contract with the
American people
and he said, I will do all these
28 of these
things.
This is a handful of those 28
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Michael
Schmidt, what are
we to make of this?
Are these the first things he's
going to do?
How do you read that?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: Well, even
though he lost
the general popular vote by 1.7
million voters,
he clearly thinks he has a
mandate, and he's
clearly going to go after the
issues that
he thinks are important and that
he campaigned
on and that his hard-core base
really wants.
To some members of the
Republican Party towards
the center, they're really not
going to like
that.
And certainly Democrats, I can't
see Chuck
Schumer going along with a lot
of things that
Mr. Trump laid out in that
video.
So you could see some real
gridlock because,
in the Senate, Mr. Schumer has a
way with
the filibuster of really
stopping some things.
So, it looks like he's going to
be sort of
heading in the direction of his
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The other thing I
want to ask
the two of you about is
questions, concerns
that have been raised about
Donald Trump meeting
in recent days with
businesspeople he's doing
business with.
He met with a group of Japanese
businessmen.
He's met with -- and we're
learning today
his new Washington hotel
soliciting business
from foreign diplomats.
Jennifer, is the transition team
answering
questions about this?
What are they saying?
JENNIFER JACOBS: Not really.
We have heard reports too about
an envoy from
the Philippines being in on
meetings -- or
at least in the room as he was
discussing
who he would choose for various
Cabinet posts.
So there does seem to be some
strange conflicts
of interests here.
But Kellyanne Conway, again, one
of his strategists,
just assures us that he has the
best interests
of Americans at heart and we
just need to
trust that he will do what he
says, and that
is to follow through on these
pledges that
he laid out on the campaign
trail and that
he's not going to try to enrich
himself by
passing legislation that is
specifically meant
to line his own pockets.
It's just about trust.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Schmidt,
just quickly,
finally, what are you learning
about that?
MICHAEL SCHMIDT: There is some
notion out
there that he could put all this
in a blind
trust.
But at the same time, his
businesses, and
his hotels and his golf courses
are everywhere.
And sort of a blind trust, it is
not really
that blind.
Certainly, he knows where these
things are
and foreign leaders know that as
well.
So there is a real movement out
there for
him to divest of everything that
he owns.
Now, that would take a very long
time and
have a considerable impact on
his bottom line.
But people say, for there
absolutely to be
no conflict, he would have to do
that, so
that would be a huge step.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Schmidt,
Jennifer Jacobs,
we thank you both.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Michael Schmidt,
Jennifer Jacobs,
we thank you both.
This weekend, Jeffrey Brown sat
down with
Senator Bernie Sanders at the
Miami Book Fair
to talk about his new book, "Our
Revolution,"
to discuss the presidential
election, and
to get his take on the future of
American
politics.
Jeff began by asking the senator
why he thought
Donald Trump's message attracted
so many voters.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS (I), Vermont: I
think he understood
that there are many millions of
people in
this country, the working middle
class, who
are really hurting.
They are in pain.
They are working longer hours
for lower wages,
can't afford child care, scared
to death of
retirement because they have no
money in the
bank.
They have seen decent-paying
jobs leave their
community, go to China and
Mexico.
And he said: I, Donald Trump,
yes, I am going
to take on the entire
establishment.
I'm going to take on the
political establishment.
I am going to take on the
economic establishment.
I'm going to take on the media
establishment.
And I think a lot of people
responded positively
to that message.
JEFFREY BROWN: I was telling you
I was in
Iowa, North Carolina seeing a
lot of the things
that I think you were seeing of
people around
the country and the desperate
shape that they
were in.
But why then would Donald Trump
become that
champion?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Now, how many
hours do we
have to discuss that issue?
That's the question that needs a
lot of discussion.
And I think it speaks to a large
degree to
the failure of the Democratic
Party.
JEFFREY BROWN: The failure?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Yes, which is
something I'm
trying to deal with right now.
The Democratic Party has been
very strong
in a lot of areas, in fighting
to make our
country a less discriminatory
country.
And that is enormously
important.
And, by the way, on that issue,
there cannot
be any compromise.
Trump's language has been
atrocious, his behavior
toward women.
We cannot go back to a racist,
sexist, homophobic,
Islamophobic type of society.
But, on economic issues, I think
there are
many people in the working class
who say,
you know what?
Yes, maybe we are better off
than we were
eight years ago, but I am still
working two
or three jobs, my kid can't
afford to go to
college, I can't afford child
care, my real
wages have been going down for
40 years.
The middle class is shrinking.
Who's standing up for me?
The Democratic Party there for
me?
Are they going to take on Wall
Street?
Are they going to take on the
drug companies
that rip me off?
And the perception was, no, they
will not.
JEFFREY BROWN: But when you look
at the election,
and you think about those issues
as drivers
in the election, did you feel --
do you feel
that you could have won if it
was you against
Donald Trump?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: I have been
asked that question
about 48 million times.
JEFFREY BROWN: I know, so make
it 48 million,
plus one.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: There you go.
And the answer is, who knows?
I mean, I think what we can say
is that the
polling when I was running
against Secretary
Clinton during the process,
primary process,
had me doing better against
Trump.
And some recent polls suggest
that I would
have won.
But, you know, you don't know
what a three-
or four-month campaign is about.
But I will say, I would very
much have loved
the opportunity.
JEFFREY BROWN: What's your
reaction to his
first nominations of Jeff
Sessions as attorney
general, General Flynn?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: It's not good.
Not good.
Not good, and not surprising,
but not good.
Look, at best, we would have
hoped that he
would be a center-right
president.
But at least his initial
appointments are
moving very, very far to the
right.
Mr. Bannon comes from the
extreme right in
American politics.
And I'm not comfortable at all
that a person
with this politics, with these
beliefs is
sitting right next to the
president as his
adviser.
JEFFREY BROWN: I think, before
election night,
most people thought it would be
the Republican
Party in disarray trying to
figure what's
next for it.
Now Democrats have lost not only
the presidency,
but -- and not only in
Washington, right,
but throughout the country.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: That's right.
The bottom line, Jeffrey, to me
is, you cannot
be a party which takes money
from Wall Street,
which is not strong on the
pharmaceutical
industry, which is ripping us
off every day,
which is not strong on health
care in taking
on the insurance companies,
which has not
shown a desire to stand up and
fight the economic
establishment, and then tell
working families
that you are on their side.
People see through that.
So, I think the Democratic Party
has got to
make fundamental choices.
It goes back to the old Woody
Guthrie song.
Which side are you on?
And I believe the Democratic
Party has got
to be firmly on the side of
working families,
taking on the big money
interests, who today,
to a very significant degree,
control our
economic and political life.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the immediate
term, though,
what should be the stance
vis-a-vis Donald
Trump?
You have said that you can work
with him in
some areas, perhaps.
But you have also said you're
ready just to
fight against him.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Well, of course
we're going
to be fighting against him.
For example, on the issue of
climate change,
Donald Trump believes that
climate change
is a hoax.
Now, this is not just a stupid
expression,
but it is incredibly dangerous.
The other area where there is no
compromise
is on bigotry.
We have struggled too much, too
long as a
country trying to overcome
racism and sexism
and homophobia.
We cannot go back to a more
discriminatory
society.
So, those are issues where there
is no compromise.
On the other hand, as somebody
who has talked
my entire political life about a
disastrous
trade policy, if Mr. Trump wants
to work with
us to make sure that trade works
for the American
worker, not just CEOs of
corporate America,
you have got a partner, partner.
JEFFREY BROWN: What do you say
now to protesters
who are in the street, including
some saying,
"Not my president"?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Well, we can say
what we want
to say, but he is going to be
inaugurated.
I think what we have to be,
going to the streets,
protesting in any and every way,
makes sense.
But we need a strategy.
And the goal is to bring
millions of people
together.
At the end of the day, if
millions of people
come together and say, we are
not going to
be a xenophobic society, we are
not going
to be throwing millions of
Latinos out of
this country, we are not going
to be a racist
society, we're not going to be a
sexist society,
we will prevail.
But our job is not just to raise
our voices.
And that's fine.
But it is to bring millions of
people together
around a progressive agenda.
JEFFREY BROWN: But he won.
So, he comes in saying, "I won.
Here's what I said I was going
to do.
I'm going to go ahead and do
it."
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Well, he won,
and so do 100
of us who are in the United
States Senate.
We also won elections.
And so do 435 people in the
House.
And so do governors all over
this country.
JEFFREY BROWN: How can you still
feel that
you have the vast number of -- a
vast majority
of Americans with you if Donald
Trump won
the election?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Well, first of
all, as you
know, Hillary Clinton got a
million-and-a-half
more votes than Donald Trump.
Second of all, 46 percent of the
American
people didn't vote.
Thirdly, on every issue that I
mentioned,
whether it's raising the minimum
wage, pay
equity, making public colleges
and universities
tuition-free, dealing with
climate change,
yes, on all of those issues and
far more,
the majority of American people
are with us,
absolutely.
JEFFREY BROWN: And you
personally, what is
your role going forward?
Do you see yourself as the de
facto leader
of this opposition, or one of
them?
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: I am going to
work with people
who hold similar views to me
inside Congress,
outside of Congress to make
certain that we
come together to stop Trump from
doing some
of the very ugly things that he
has talked
about doing.
And when he is prepared to work
with us -- and
we can work together on raising
the minimum
wage, taking on the drug
companies, changing
our trade policies, rebuilding
the infrastructure.
Trump talked about taking on
Wall Street.
Well, we are going to hold him
accountable.
He says he wants to reestablish
-- bring forth
Glass-Steagall legislation.
That's a good thing.
Will he do it?
Who knows.
But we are going to -- we have a
list of everything
that he said.
And we going to bring forth
legislation around
those issues and say, Mr. Trump,
this is what
you promised the American
people.
Keep your word.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, the
book is "Our
Revolution."
Senator Bernie Sanders, thank
you very much.
SEN.
BERNIE SANDERS: Thank you for
having me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tomorrow, we look
at the future
of the Democratic Party with
Ohio Congressman
Tim Ryan, who is challenging
Nancy Pelosi
to be minority leader in the
House of Representatives.
You can also watch many other
authors Jeff
talked to this week at the Miami
Book Fair.
You will find that at our Web
site, bookviewnow.org.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
Henry Kissinger's
view of foreign policy in the
age of Donald
Trump; and a female entrepreneur
finds success
in an unexpected business.
But, first, it's time for
Politics Monday.
I'm joined by Tamara Keith of
NPR and Amy
Walter of The Cook Political
Report.
And welcome to both of you.
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Thank
you.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Thank
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, we just a few
minutes ago
saw this video the Trump
transition team released,
telling us what Donald Trump
plans to do in
the first -- in the early part
of his administration
after he's inaugurated.
He talked about trade.
He talked about energy and
investigating people
who abuse their visas, trying to
make sure
people aren't here taking jobs
away from Americans.
Amy, this is unusual, isn't it?
I mean, the election is almost
two weeks ago.
He has not had a news conference
yet.
He's done some tweeting.
We have seen him greeting people
coming to
Trump Tower, and now this.
AMY WALTER: And now a video,
where, obviously,
you cannot do questions and
answers.
The only thing he --
interestingly he said
in the video is the things he
was going to
do by executive order, not
things that he
would -- here is what I'm going
to work on
with Congress in my first three
days.
Here are the things that I'm
going to do as
president.
And, again, each president has
come in with
the ability for executive orders
to roll back
the previous administration's
executive orders,
right, because they're not a
rule of law in
the same way as if they were
passed by Congress.
That said, to your other point
about this
being unusual, we have to stop
treating Donald
Trump like this is just a
traditional, normal,
political candidate who's now
going to be
a traditional, normal president.
The fact that he did tweet out
this weekend,
get in something of a fight with
the cast
of "Hamilton," as well as the
cast of "Saturday
Night Live," this now as
president-elect,
not just as a candidate, the
fact that he's
just using video, instead of
having an actual
press conference, so the role
that Donald
Trump carved out as a candidate
is the same
role that he's going to play as
president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What does it tell
us, Tam,
about how he relates to the
public and to
the news media?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
So, he hasn't held a press
difference since
July.
This goes way, way, way back to
the campaign.
And he has not related to the
press or the
public in a traditional way
ever.
And he's had an incredible skill
at distracting,
at creating -- there was this
movie "Up" and
there was a dog who gets
distracted, and,
squirrel, squirrel.
That's what happens.
Every time there is a story that
is not favorable
to him, like settling the Trump
University
lawsuit for $25 million,
suddenly, there is
a Twitter fight.
Meanwhile, he has skillfully
avoided sort
of the type of environment that
a press conference
creates, the environment where
you get asked
a question, and then somebody
else asks a
question, then somebody else
asks a question,
it builds on it, and you really
can't escape.
And so there is nothing like a
press conference.
And his transition team is
saying, well, you
know, don't tell him what's
traditional and
what is conventional.
This is Donald Trump.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, Amy, a
million eyes
are on him, a million pairs of
reporters'
eyes and the public paying
attention here,
not knowing what's next.
He's keeping us on the edge of
our seats.
AMY WALTER: And he loves doing
that.
Remember, this is a candidate
who said, I
like being unpredictable.
And it's a candidate who said,
you are going
to have to wait and see if I
accept the results
of this election during the
debate.
So, this isn't surprising to me
at all that
he's continuing this as
president.
I think this is what we learned
during the
course of the campaign is that
just, every
day, we would come in and we
would say, well,
maybe now is the time that he's
going to pivot.
Maybe now he's going to look
more like a traditional
candidate.
That just is not going to
happen.
And so as he's parading these
people through,
you can argue that he's bringing
a lot of
different faces and voices, but
the people
that he's picked are the people
we should
be focusing on.
And right now the people that
he's chosen
in his administration are very
much out of
the cloth, the Trump cloth, I
guess, that
he has -- you know, these are
his acolytes.
These are not a team of rivals
that he's putting
together.
They support everything he stood
for in that
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What are we to
make of these
choices so far?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, personnel is
policy, especially
in his case, because he doesn't
have really
well-defined policy positions
that he campaigned
on.
He doesn't have strong positions
on a lot
of things and he doesn't have
the government
experience.
And so what we have so far are
people who
are very much of the Trump
party.
They are not traditional
Republicans.
Now, he's met with people like
Mitt Romney
or General Mattis, people who
would be considered
more traditional, but he hasn't
picked them
yet.
And so, at this point, it's
really not clear
-- aside from who he has picked,
like a Steve
Bannon or a Mike Pompeo.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jeff Sessions.
TAMARA KEITH: Jeff Sessions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Jeff Sessions for
attorney
general.
TAMARA KEITH: Exactly.
Other than those names, we know
who he's taking
to, but we don't know who he's
actually listening
to or choosing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But it's giving
us -- these
names, though, Amy, have given
us something
to look at.
AMY WALTER: The names the he's
picked.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The names he's
Jeff Sessions has a record.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Steve Bannon has
a private
sector record.
Certainly...
AMY WALTER: And it aligns with
the Donald
Trump that we saw on the
campaign trail.
Their views and vision align
with what he
talked about on the campaign
trail.
And all of them were active for
him on the
campaign trail and as
surrogates.
So, you're right.
If you bring in a General
Mattis, who is very
well-respected both in the
traditional military
establishment, as well as the
political establishment,
that's bringing in a new voice.
Now, it's unclear whether he
wants to have
new voices giving him new advice
or he's just
more comfortable surrounded by
the kinds of
people that he has been
surrounded by for
the last year.
TAMARA KEITH: And so far, the
people he picked
were very loyal to him in the
campaign.
And he's rewarded that loyalty
by bringing
them into his administration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But he's talking
to people
like Mitt Romney, who the two
men didn't have
a single kind word.
In fact, they were very tough on
each other
during the campaign.
Now they're saying he's under
very serious
consideration to be secretary of
state.
TAMARA KEITH: And Tulsi Gabbard,
the congresswoman,
Democratic congresswoman from
Hawaii, who
endorsed Bernie Sanders.
It's just a wide range of people
who he's
talking to.
And it's just -- it's not clear
at this point
what philosophy is guiding
Trump's choices,
other than loyalty, thus far in
the picks
that he's made.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is that -- Amy,
do we just
get used to this?
AMY WALTER: Yes.
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Hanging on the
edge of our
seats?
AMY WALTER: Yes, is that you
have to just
get used to all of this.
As I think Tam said perfectly,
there is a
lot of distraction here.
And so what I'm trying to do is
spend all
of my time focused on what he's
actually done
and doing, as opposed to all the
other stuff
that is sort of floating out
there.
If he picks a Tulsi Gabbard, a
General Mattis,
a Mitt Romney, then we are going
to have a
different conversation, because
we also know
that there is part of Donald
Trump that does
like to have internal tension
around him,
that he likes to have people
around him competing
for his attention.
So, we may see something like
that.
But the team of rivals sort of
idea doesn't
seem to be something that Donald
Trump likes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we need to
talk about
the Democrats, too.
We just heard from Bernie
Sanders.
And next Monday, that's what we
will talk
about.
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Amy Walter,
Tamara Keith, thank
you.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: Thanks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Earlier this
year, we reported
on "Atlantic" magazine editor
Jeffrey Goldberg's
article "The Obama Doctrine."
The lengthy piece gained
widespread attention,
including that of former
Secretary of State
Henry Kissinger, who quietly let
it be known
that he'd like to share some
thoughts of his
own about President Obama's
foreign policy.
So, Jeffrey Goldberg and
Kissinger sat down
to talk.
This is a report on part of an
ongoing partnership
between the "NewsHour" and "The
Atlantic."
JEFFREY GOLDBERG, National
Correspondent,
"The Atlantic": He's still
really the most
influential foreign policy
thinker in America
in a lot of ways.
And so, in my experience with
him, there's
always something to learn, even
at the age
of 93, maybe especially at the
age of 93.
There's always something to
learn from him.
And so we wound up spending
hours talking
about not just the Obama
doctrine.
We talked about the order of the
world currently,
and we talked a lot about the
election.
He, like a lot of people,
thought Hillary
Clinton was going to win.
We talked about both candidates.
And, well, here we are.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, the news
right now is the
election of Donald Trump, and
we're going
to talk about that.
But let's go back to how your
conversation
with Henry Kissinger came about.
What does he think about the
legacy of Barack
Obama's foreign policy?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: He thinks that
the president
is too passive in his approach
to foreign
policy, that the American
president has a
responsibility to make more
order in the world,
especially as it relates to the
other great
powers, Russia and China in
particular.
He also thinks that the
president is too burdened
by the alleged sins of the past
-- Kissinger
would think of them more as
alleged sins -- of
American behavior during the
Cold War in various
places, including Vietnam and
Cambodia.
But, mainly, it has to do with a
passivity
that he sees in the present, a
lack of strategic
thinking, a lack of assertion.
And, obviously, the president,
when I was
interviewing him on these
subjects, Kissinger
was almost sort of a specter in
the room at
various points, because the
president would
talk about the red line in
Syria, for instance,
and talk about how one of the
worst reasons
to bomb someone is to prove that
you're willing
to bomb someone.
And I felt as if he were
addressing Henry
Kissinger and Kissinger's role
in Cambodia,
using bombing to enhance
American credibility
at the negotiating table.
So, I found -- it was a totally
fascinating
process for me, because I was
moderating,
non-chronologically, an argument
between President
Obama and the most important and
most controversial
foreign policy statesman of the
modern era.
And so -- and so there was that
piece.
The other piece is that Obama,
in some ways,
resembles Henry Kissinger.
Kissinger recognizes this to
some degree.
I think the president recognizes
it to some
degree.
Neither man particularly
obsesses about human
rights as a key issue in the way
America organizes
its relationship with other
countries.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But when it comes
to Cambodia
and the bombing and during the
Vietnam War
and connecting that to what's
happening...
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: And Syria,
yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: ... right now in
Syria, Kissinger
is still defending the decisions
that were
made during the early part of
the Nixon administration
in the Vietnam War.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Right.
And I don't think he will stop
defending them.
He feels as if his
decision-making is misunderstood
in the country, and he wants to
make his point.
And the interesting thing, if I
may, is, on
Syria, he noted to me that John
Kerry, the
secretary of state, guy who had
-- who has
the job that Henry Kissinger
had, who started
his public career as a Vietnam
protester,
had been arguing to the
president that we
have to bomb the Assad regime,
in order to
focus their attention on the
necessity of
negotiation.
And so you see these very
interesting echoes
throughout history, these
unsolvable problems,
these challenges that are in
front of policy-makers.
I have a feeling that John Kerry
and Barack
Obama today have slightly more
understanding
for the decisions that Nixon and
Kissinger
made in Vietnam.
They might not agree with them,
but they have
a little bit more understanding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The other point
that you make
where you see some connection
between Kissinger
and Obama is the fact that human
rights is
not at the top of their list of
priorities.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: One wouldn't
expect that to
be the case, would you?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: In Obama's
case.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In Obama's case.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Well, that's
one of the
interesting things.
Like, hope and change is limited
to within
American borders in a lot of
cases.
He is -- this is -- you know, I
don't think
that President Obama would
appreciate being
called a neo-Henry Kissinger,
but Obama's
view is: I, as president, have
to manage my
relationship with China, and me
spending a
lot of time lecturing them, and
"punishing
them" -- quote, unquote -- for
their human
rights violations, that's not
going to advance
my immediate and long-term
national security
interests and economic
interests.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, in fact, you
spent a good
bit of time with Henry Kissinger
talking about
President Obama's approach to
China, what
is right about it and what
Kissinger finds
falls short.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Right.
First of all, I asked him what
grade he gives
Obama for managing the China
portfolio, and
he said B-plus.
And I said, that's a pretty high
grade.
That's not a bad grade.
And he said, yes, it's a B-plus
on tactics.
It's lower probably on strategy,
on thinking
through strategy.
Kissinger's focus in global
affairs has always
been, what are the needs of the
great powers,
how do those needs align with
our needs, how
do we organize that?
The opening to China, of course,
was the apogee
of this theory.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You really
cannot, I think,
overstate the importance that
Kissinger places
on China and on China-U.S.
relations in the
world going forward, can you?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: No.
No.
It was his greatest achievement,
and it was
a world historical achievement.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In 1971, when
Kissinger was
national security adviser to
President Richard
Nixon, he made a secret trip to
the People's
Republic of China, which had not
had relations
with the U.S. in over 20 years.
Kissinger's diplomacy paved the
way for Nixon's
so-called opening to China in
1972.
It was the beginning of China's
emergence
as a world power.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: China is going
to be the
world's biggest economy, if
things keep going
in the way they're going.
Our future, our economic future,
the American
economic future, is in Asia.
China believes itself to be the
most powerful
country in the world, the
central kingdom.
And so he's saying that
presidents have to
have a strategic view and
understand how to
manage that aspect of Chinese
relationships
without coming to war.
The stability of the entire
world depends
on a constructive relationship
between the
United States and China.
If that relationship
deteriorates it's bad
for the U.S., it's bad for the
entire world.
So, it should be the number one
priority of
American foreign policy.
But there's chaos in the world,
too.
And American presidents have to
deal with
the chaos at the same time that
they're thinking
about 10, 20, 30 years out how
they're going
to deal with China.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how does he
view Donald
Trump and Donald Trump's
approach to...
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Well, in our
most recent
conversation, I said, so do you
think that
Donald Trump has matured?
Do you think he's become
smarter, or more
studious.
And he said, I'm not having that
conversation.
He's the president-elect of the
United States.
And so what we should do is,
essentially -- I'm
paraphrasing now -- but we
should wish him
well, and be available to help
him study,
and help him understand the
challenges before
him.
Obviously, Henry Kissinger is a
person, even
at 93, who doesn't like to be
out of the game,
doesn't like to be out of the
limelight, and
so he's basically saying: I'm
here for you,
Don, and I want to give you some
sound advice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And last Thursday
afternoon,
Kissinger was able to do just
that in a meeting
with Trump, after which the
president-elect
said in a statement, "I have
tremendous respect
for Dr. Kissinger and appreciate
him sharing
his thoughts with me."
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Kissinger's
basic rule,
I think, is that, you know, know
what you
want to do, and know what things
are unacceptable
to you.
You have to know going into the
presidency
what things you cannot accept as
the leader
of the United States, and you
have to reverse-engineer
the problem.
What could China do in the South
China Sea
that is not acceptable to U.S.
national security
interests?
What could happen in the Middle
East that
is not acceptable?
So, first, you have to decide
what your -- to
borrow a phrase, what your red
lines are,
and then you work back from
there.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Does he believe
that someone
who hasn't had experience in
world affairs
and foreign policy can make a
determination
like that about what the red
line should be
before they come...
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: He doesn't --
he was very
assiduous about not providing
his opinion
on where Donald Trump is on the
learning curve
right now.
I think it's a universal truth
that, if you're
not willing, or able, to take on
board new
information, new analysis, have
long, involved
conversations about these
important issues,
then you're going to be
operating at a real
deficit.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Much, if not most
of the foreign
policy establishment in the
United States
has not been on board with
Donald Trump.
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Right.
Quite the opposite.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How can he move
ahead making
decisions that are good for the
country, when
he hasn't had these
relationships with people?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: Well, he's
going to have
to do something that might be
out of character
for Donald Trump, which is to
say bygones
are bygones, pick up the phone,
and say to
Colin Powell, say to Madeleine
Albright, say
to to all these people come in
and talk to
me about what you know.
And, at the lower level, he's
going to have
to be open to the idea that
people who disagreed
with him, disagreed with his
candidacy, that
they should come back into
government and
help.
And the flip side of that is
that all of these
people who were so nervous about
Donald Trump
becoming president now might
have to say to
themselves, well, Donald Trump
is president,
president-elect, and so I better
make myself
available to go back into
government, because
better me than some guy nobody
ever heard
of with no experience, because
these are not
unserious challenges.
These are life-and-death issues.
You want people who understand
the global
ISIS threat really well to be
sitting next
to Donald Trump when he actually
has to make
decisions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What are you
worried about
right now?
What do you -- do you have
expectations for
this administration, or not?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: I'm worried
about everything,
for starters.
QUESTION: Mr. Trump, do you feel
ready to
be president, sir?
JEFFREY GOLDBERG: I'm worried
about a willingness
to hire the best people.
I'm worried about temperament.
I'm worried about his attention,
his focus.
I am not entirely worried that
he's actually
going to carry out all of the
things he said
he would do.
I'm worried about accidents.
Who do you want in the White
House when the
CIA director comes over and says
the North
Koreans now have the ability to
deliver one
of their nuclear weapons by
intercontinental
ballistic missile to the
American mainland?
What do you want to do about it,
Mister or
Madame President?
And I want somebody in that job,
obviously,
who can make reasonable,
rational decisions,
and take in the best advice.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The number of
female-owned
businesses in New York City is
growing at
four times the rate of
male-owned businesses,
becoming a key part of the
city's expanding
economy.
And many of these companies are
beginning
to stand out for work being done
in fields
that have historically been
dominated by men.
Hari Sreenivasan tells the story
of how one
female entrepreneur has built
success in an
unlikely place.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There's just
not many women
on construction sites?
NELLIE TORRES, CEO, ProjectSpan:
There's not
too many women, though you will
find more
now than you would have when I
first started.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Nellie Torres
was just 17
when she got her first job in
construction
as an accounting intern.
Today, more than 20 years later,
she's the
CEO of ProjectSpan, a
Brooklyn-based construction
company that she started in
2003.
NELLIE TORRES: When do you think
the lights
will be ready to be installed?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Torres is
known for her
work on some of the city's most
sought-after
projects, West Manhattan's new
subway station,
New York's first in 25 years,
the electrical
work for Yankee Stadium's center
field, and
her current job, lighting the
massive Kosciuszko
Bridge that connects Brooklyn
and Queens.
It couldn't have been easy
getting here.
NELLIE TORRES: It wasn't easy
HARI SREENIVASAN: The most
difficult part
for Torres?
Breaking into construction's old
boys club,
and overcoming stereotypes that
women like
her don't belong.
As a woman of color, did you
feel like you
had to do twice as much work, be
twice as
good just to be kind of
considered equally?
NELLIE TORRES: Absolutely.
I had -- in my view, I had to be
better.
I had to be earlier.
I had to be on point.
My numbers had to be perfect,
maybe not perfect
all the time, but most of the
time, definitely
more than my male counterparts.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It was a
different bar.
NELLIE TORRES: It was a much
higher bar.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Torres grew up
in a rough
section of East New York, the
sixth of seven
children of Puerto Rican
immigrants.
She put herself through college
and earned
a master's degree by working
days, studying
nights all while raising a son.
NELLIE TORRES: East New York has
made me what
I am.
And I spent a long time trying
to pretend
that I wasn't from there and
pretend that
my childhood wasn't in the
ghetto growing
up.
And, eventually, I have noticed
that, no,
that that made me exactly who I
am.
It's made me have the ability to
knock on
walls and break down walls.
Otherwise, I don't think I would
have been
where I'm at.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Where Torres
is at is starting
to become more common.
Nationally, according to the
latest census
data, there are nearly 10
million women-owned
businesses, an increase of more
than 25 percent
since 2007.
And a recent report by the
Center for an Urban
Future found women started more
than 60 percent
of all new businesses in New
York City between
2002 and 2012, according to
Jonathan Bowles,
who authored the report.
JONATHAN BOWLES, Executive
Director, Center
for an Urban Future: Well, we
actually did
an analysis for the 25 largest
cities.
And there has been major growth
across the
board.
The number of women
entrepreneurs are growing,
not just in New York, but in all
major cities
in the U.S.
HARI SREENIVASAN: However,
construction remains
an industry that lags behind.
Only 15 percent of all private
construction
firms in New York City are owned
by women.
JONATHAN BOWLES: There's a lack
of role models.
That's really changed, but, a
lot of times,
women didn't see people in their
families
or in their friendship networks
that had started
businesses.
Fortunately, that really is
changing.
But getting access to those role
models and
mentors is a big deal.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Torres, who
oversees a team
of 17 full-time employees, is
trying to set
an example for female staffers
on how to best
climb the ladder in an industry
that has not
been very open.
NELLIE TORRES: You have to be
very, very,
very tough, have very tough
skin, and not
be willing to take no for an
answer.
You will hear no a lot.
You will hear you can't a lot.
You will hear, you don't belong
here.
And you just need to recognize
that, yes,
you do belong here.
You need to get educated, you
need to get
experience, and you need to
forge ahead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Even now,
despite being
the boss for years, her
employees see discrimination
outside.
Willie Grullon is ProjectSpan's
safety manager.
WILLIE GRULLON, Safety Manager,
ProjectSpan:
When we go to job sites, and
sometimes she
shows up.
And electricians and
construction workers,
when they first see her and she
starts asking
questions, they assume she's a
project manager.
And when they come over, you
guys got a new
project manager?
And I'm like, no, she's the
owner of the company.
And I get a kick of their
expression, the
surprise they get.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Successful
women in construction
may still be a rare sight, but
Torres is participating
in a New York City program to
mentor minority
and female-owned businesses, and
pave the
way for similar entrepreneurs.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
in New York.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A news update
before we go.
Police in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, are reporting
multiple deaths in an elementary
school bus
crash, but didn't confirm an
exact number.
They did confirm that 23 were
sent to the
hospital with injuries after the
bus overturned.
Authorities are questioning the
driver about
what went wrong.
And in San Antonio, Texas,
police have arrested
a suspect in the fatal shooting
of a police
officer yesterday.
He's charged with murdering a
veteran officer
who was sitting in his cruiser
during a traffic
stop.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.